---
---

Automation is your friend. I think figures should be autogenerated as part of the data analysis pipeline (which should also be automated), and they should come out of the pipeline ready to be sent to the printer, with no manual post-processing needed. 

A lot of trainees autogenerate rough drafts of their figures, which they then import into Illustrator for sprucing up. There are several reasons why this is a bad idea. 

1. The moment you manually edit a figure, your final figure becomes irreproducible. A third party cannot generate the exact same figure you did. While this may not matter much if all you did was change the font of the axis labels, the lines are blurry, and it’s easy to cross over into territory where things are less clear-cut. As an example, let’s say you want to manually replace cryptic labels with more readable ones. A third party may not be able to verify that the label replacement was appropriate. 
2.  If you add a lot of manual post- processing to your figure-preparation pipeline, then you will be more reluctant to make any changes or redo your work. Thus, you may ignore reasonable requests for change made by collaborators or colleagues, or you may be tempted to reuse an old figure even though you’ve actually regenerated all the data. 
3. Third, you may yourself forget what exactly you did to prepare a given figure, or you may not be able to generate a future figure on new data that exactly visually matches your earlier figure. These are not made-up examples. I’ve seen all of them play out with real people and real publications.

Therefore, interactive plot programs are a bad idea as they inherently force you to manually prepare your figures.

One critical component in a book on data visualization is the feasibility of the pro‐ posed visualizations. It’s nice to invent some elegant new type of visualization, but if nobody can easily generate figures using this visualization then there isn’t much use to it.
